README.md, before:

# Plex Backup

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gebn/plexbackup.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gebn/plexbackup)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/gebn/plexbackup?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/gebn/plexbackup)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/gebn/plexbackup)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/gebn/plexbackup)

Backs up the [`Plex Media Server`](https://www.plex.tv) directory to S3.
Intended to run as a cron job, ideally soon after the configured maintenance period.
The directory (excluding `Cache`) is passed through `tar` and `gzip`, then uploaded, without writing to disk.

## Setup

### IAM

Regardless of how the job runs, it requires list, put and delete permissions on the destination bucket. This can be achieved with the following IAM policy:

    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": "s3:ListBucket",
                "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket>"
            },
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "s3:PutObject",
                    "s3:DeleteObject"
                ],
                "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket>/<prefix>*"
            }
        ]
    }

*N.B. if using EC2, an [instance profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2.html) can make management much easier.*

### Sudoers

In order to ensure consistency of the backup, Plex is stopped then started once the process is complete.
This tool effectively runs `sudo systemctl stop|start <unit>` to do this (Polkit was also considered but [ultimately rejected](https://github.com/gebn/plexbackup/issues/6#issuecomment-452899467)).
Assuming a vanilla installation, this can be made to work by allowing the `plex` user to execute the two required commands without having to re-authenticate:

    # cat <<EOF > /etc/sudoers.d/10-plex-backup
    plex ALL=NOPASSWD: /bin/systemctl stop plexmediaserver.service
    plex ALL=NOPASSWD: /bin/systemctl start plexmediaserver.service
    EOF

### Cron

Download the [latest release](https://github.com/gebn/plexbackup/releases/latest) to `/opt/plexbackup/` on the Plex server.
Add a line similar to the following to the `plex` user's crontab:

    22 6 * * * /opt/plexbackup/plexbackup --bucket backup.eu-west-2.thebrightons.co.uk --region eu-west-2 --prefix plex/newton- 2> /your/log/file

Choose a time that doesn't overlap with the server's background task hours. The best time to run the backup is soon after these tasks have finished.
Note logs are written to `stderr`, rather than `stdout`.

If you have a relatively underpowered machine but a fast network, consider installing [`pigz`](https://zlib.net/pigz/).
This will be used in place of `gz` if available on the `$PATH`, and can give a good speed boost if bottlenecking on the compression.

## Usage

    $ plexbackup --help
    usage: plexbackup --bucket=BUCKET --region=REGION [<flags>]

    Flags:
      --help            Show context-sensitive help (also try --help-long and --help-man).
      --bucket=BUCKET   Name of the S3 bucket to upload the backup to.
      --region=REGION   Region of the --bucket.
      --prefix="plex/"  Location within the bucket to upload to. This will be suffixed with <RFC3339
                        date>.tar.gz, e.g. "2019-01-06T22:38:21Z.tar.gz".
      --no-pause        Do not stop Plex while the backup is performed. This is not recommended, as it
                        risks an inconsistent backup.
      --service="plexmediaserver.service"  
                        Name of the Plex systemd unit to stop while the backup is performed.
      --directory="/var/lib/plexmediaserver/Library/Application Support/Plex Media Server"
                        Location of the 'Plex Media Server' directory to back up.
      --version         Show application version.

## Why gzip?

`xz` was also [tested](https://github.com/gebn/plexbackup/issues/16), however the reduction in backup size was dwarfed by the increase in compression time.
In my environment, the network is relatively fast and the CPU is relatively slow, so this tool was designed with that in mind.
The additional downtime of Plex and CPU credits consumed was deemed not worth it, especially when storage is so cheap.
If your circumstances are different and you'd like the option of using `xz`, please feel free to submit a pull request!

Commit message:

Say how to edit another user's crontab as root
Closes #29.

README.md, after:

# Plex Backup

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gebn/plexbackup.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gebn/plexbackup)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/gebn/plexbackup?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/gebn/plexbackup)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/gebn/plexbackup)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/gebn/plexbackup)

Backs up the [`Plex Media Server`](https://www.plex.tv) directory to S3.
Intended to run as a cron job, ideally soon after the configured maintenance period.
The directory (excluding `Cache`) is passed through `tar` and `gzip`, then uploaded, without writing to disk.

## Setup

### IAM

Regardless of how the job runs, it requires list, put and delete permissions on the destination bucket. This can be achieved with the following IAM policy:

    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": "s3:ListBucket",
                "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket>"
            },
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "s3:PutObject",
                    "s3:DeleteObject"
                ],
                "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket>/<prefix>*"
            }
        ]
    }

*N.B. if using EC2, an [instance profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2.html) can make management much easier.*

### Sudoers

In order to ensure consistency of the backup, Plex is stopped then started once the process is complete.
This tool effectively runs `sudo systemctl stop|start <unit>` to do this (Polkit was also considered but [ultimately rejected](https://github.com/gebn/plexbackup/issues/6#issuecomment-452899467)).
Assuming a vanilla installation, this can be made to work by allowing the `plex` user to execute the two required commands without having to re-authenticate:

    # cat <<EOF > /etc/sudoers.d/10-plex-backup
    plex ALL=NOPASSWD: /bin/systemctl stop plexmediaserver.service
    plex ALL=NOPASSWD: /bin/systemctl start plexmediaserver.service
    EOF

### Cron

Download the [latest release](https://github.com/gebn/plexbackup/releases/latest) to `/opt/plexbackup/` on the Plex server.
Open the `plex` user's crontab with `crontab -eu plex` as root. Add a line similar to the following:

    22 6 * * * /opt/plexbackup/plexbackup --bucket backup.eu-west-2.thebrightons.co.uk --region eu-west-2 --prefix plex/newton- 2> /your/log/file

Choose a time that doesn't overlap with the server's background task hours. The best time to run the backup is soon after these tasks have finished.
Note logs are written to `stderr`, rather than `stdout`.

If you have a relatively underpowered machine but a fast network, consider installing [`pigz`](https://zlib.net/pigz/).
This will be used in place of `gz` if available on the `$PATH`, and can give a good speed boost if bottlenecking on the compression.

## Usage

    $ plexbackup --help
    usage: plexbackup --bucket=BUCKET --region=REGION [<flags>]

    Flags:
      --help            Show context-sensitive help (also try --help-long and --help-man).
      --bucket=BUCKET   Name of the S3 bucket to upload the backup to.
      --region=REGION   Region of the --bucket.
      --prefix="plex/"  Location within the bucket to upload to. This will be suffixed with <RFC3339
                        date>.tar.gz, e.g. "2019-01-06T22:38:21Z.tar.gz".
      --no-pause        Do not stop Plex while the backup is performed. This is not recommended, as it
                        risks an inconsistent backup.
      --service="plexmediaserver.service"  
                        Name of the Plex systemd unit to stop while the backup is performed.
      --directory="/var/lib/plexmediaserver/Library/Application Support/Plex Media Server"
                        Location of the 'Plex Media Server' directory to back up.
      --version         Show application version.

## Why gzip?

`xz` was also [tested](https://github.com/gebn/plexbackup/issues/16), however the reduction in backup size was dwarfed by the increase in compression time.
In my environment, the network is relatively fast and the CPU is relatively slow, so this tool was designed with that in mind.
The additional downtime of Plex and CPU credits consumed was deemed not worth it, especially when storage is so cheap.
If your circumstances are different and you'd like the option of using `xz`, please feel free to submit a pull request!
